1531. String Compression IIHard46751Add to ListShareRun-length encoding is a string compression method that works byreplacing consecutive identical characters (repeated 2 or more times) with the concatenation of the character and the number marking the count of the characters (length of the run). For example, to compress the string"aabccc"we replace "aa"by"a2"and replace "ccc"by"c3". Thus the compressed string becomes "a2bc3".
Notice that in this problem, we are not adding'1'after single characters.
Given astring sand an integer k. You need to delete at mostk characters fromssuch that the run-length encoded version of shas minimum length.
Find the minimum length of the run-length encodedversion of s after deleting at most k characters.

Example 1:
Input: s = "aaabcccd", k = 2
Output: 4
Explanation: Compressing s without deleting anything will give us "a3bc3d" of length 6. Deleting any of the characters 'a' or 'c' would at most decrease the length of the compressed string to 5, for instance delete 2 'a' then we will have s = "abcccd" which compressed is abc3d. Therefore, the optimal way is to delete 'b' and 'd', then the compressed version of s will be "a3c3" of length 4.
Example 2:
Input: s = "aabbaa", k = 2
Output: 2
Explanation: If we delete both 'b' characters, the resulting compressed string would be "a4" of length 2.

Example 3:
Input: s = "aaaaaaaaaaa", k = 0
Output: 3
Explanation: Since k is zero, we cannot delete anything. The compressed string is "a11" of length 3.


Constraints:

1 <= s.length <= 100
0 <= k <= s.length
s contains only lowercase English letters.

Accepted11.2KSubmissions29.5KSeen this question in a real interview before?YesNoCompaniesRelated TopicsStringDynamic ProgrammingShow Hint 1Use dynamic programming.Show Hint 2The state of the DP can be the current index and the remaining characters to delete.Show Hint 3Having a prefix sum for each character can help you determine for a certain character c in some specific range, how many characters you need to delete to merge all occurrences of c in that range.